YORKE:
The deal was very clear.
No contact with anyone
from your previous life.
Bring us Emily Burton.
Damn it, Ian.
You haven't been
in touch in a while.
You need to let us go.
This was taken
when I was in the clinic.
She was here, in our world.
Mom, you've taken me
here before.
You said it had to be
our little secret.
EMILY PRIME:
What kind of person does that?
Impersonates a mother.
All for her own gratification.
She's the one
who can't be trusted.
-I need to go back.
-EMILY PRIME: Hi, Ian.
We're ready
to turn ourselves in.
-Drop the knife.
-You don't want this.
[ choking ]
Emily Silk has to die tonight.
That's not who I am anymore.
I love you, too.
BALDWIN:
Indigo is coming.
[ grunting ]
Where's my husband? Get out.
CLARE: I'm so fucking sick of
doing what they tell us to do.
I can't work here anymore.
I quit my job today.
I'm leaving, and I want
my family to stay together.
-CLARE: I saw them
unloading some crates.
-Clare?
-It's an honor to see you.
-Ethel.
This is my wife, Shadow.
I think I may know
what they're about to do.
MIRA:
My terms are simple.
Shut down the Crossing forever.
We'll surrender myself
and my father.
[ laughs ]
[ speaking German ]
[ laughter ]
Okay. We should get ready.
I didn't get mine.
I know.
How come I don't get a shot?
You're not coming
with us, Ethel.
What do you mean?
Plans have changed.
There's something more
important I need for you to do.
What happens if they
don't listen to us?
-They will.
-[ chuckles ]
You are so confident.
Do you remember
when I was seven
and the schoolmaster said
I couldn't wear pants?
That only the boys
were allowed?
Yeah.
What happened?
You convinced them
to change the rules,
and you never wore
a skirt again.
People can be flexible
when they need to be.
♪
Are these really necessary?
I'm afraid so.
As soon as we get in,
we're gonna need to talk
to Management.
You'll meet with Management
if Management wants
to meet with you.
Howard is willing to cooperate
with everything
they've asked for.
Mm-hmm.
What's happened to you?
Makes you so blindly loyal.
[ sighs ]
[ indistinct announcement
over P.A. ]
Separate them
into private rooms.
What are you doing, Ian?
This one needs a doctor.
♪
-What do you want?
-I want to talk.
-With me?
-Yeah.
What am I, the only guy
you trust around here?
Thanks.
Oat milk? Really?
Dairy, it bloats.
You're not gonna join me?
Not hungry.
I didn't want
to kill your people.
I know.
Normally, it's easy.
It never stays with me.
But that was different.
What do you do,
after you kill?
I try not to think about it.
That's an address I came across.
It's a construction outfit.
They develop technology
in third world countries.
So?
I think Indigo's got
a plant on the inside.
I need your help
getting in there.
Why me?
I'm fresh out of friends
on this side.
You know what I mean?
I don't want to kill anymore.
Okay, well,
you want to have a life
in this world?
Indigo's about to make that
really fucking difficult,
unless we do something about it.
I've spent way too long
pretending to be someone else.
I look around this place,
see you surrounded
by stuff that doesn't
belong to you.
I think maybe you've been
doing the same thing.
It doesn't work.
We are who we are.
We kill people,
then we eat breakfast.
[ sighs ]
CLARE: Indigo cells
are compartmentalized,
so no individual operative
has access to the full plan.
TEMPLE:
Who gives you the orders?
Until recently,
it was Claude Lambert.
Who's no longer alive.
That was another cell.
Cleaning up. He got caught.
They had to take care of it.
Are you in touch
with this cell?
Clare, we can work together,
or I can make one phone call
and have you thrown into a dark
cell for the rest of your life.
Uh, h-hold on a second.
You, too, Peter. And where
do you think that baby ends up?
In some shitty
foster care system?
If they choose not to experiment
on her, which they will.
So I'll ask again,
are you in touch with this cell?
-Yeah.
-Who are they?
-People you know well?
-Some of them, yeah.
I knew them when I was young.
We were in the School together.
But over the years,
we lost touch.
And then a few days ago,
one of them came back
into my life.
I saw him and some others moving
these... refrigerated boxes.
And you now think
it was a flu virus.
Not a flu virus, theflu.
The one they're going to release
in this world.
So you don't know where or how
this flu is going
to be released?
No.
What's your friend's name?
Spencer.
Spencer Schmidt.
Good. I need you to make contact
with Spencer.
I can do that.
TEMPLE: You're gonna meet him
wearing a wire,
and you're gonna find out how
he plans on releasing this flu.
S-sorry, what?
Your wife is our only point
of access to these people.
Yeah, but we came here
to bring you information.
We didn't agree to send her
into the lion's den.
You agreed to that the minute
you showed up at my door.
Okay, no, then it's off.
No, we're not gonna do that.
Do I need to spell out
the situation you two are in?
Both of your lives,
as you know them, are over.
Your only hope for a future
is to cooperate,
in any way I see fit.
Do you understand?
SAM:
I want Mom!
Sam, go back to bed, right now.
-Sam. I'm so sorry.
-No, it's okay.
-Sorry, he just wasn't sleeping.
-I want Mom!
ELAN: I know, darling.
Mommy's working right now.
Excuse me,
I'll-I'll be right back.
ELAN:
Sorry.
-No, it's okay.
-Do you want some breakfast?
No, no, we're about to leave.
Try and get some sleep,
all right?
You got a whole hour before you
have to get ready for school.
-I don't want to.
-I know,
but Mommy has to go to work.
You're always working.
But I'm always
thinking about you.
You may not understand this now,
but the work I do out there,
is all for you.
What's her name?
-Spencer.
-Oh, I love it.
Oh, it's not a lot of girls
named Spencer.
Our Sam, he's having
a bit of trouble
adjusting to the move.
CLARE:
Must be challenging.
Yeah, yeah, well,
it's not what we signed up for,
but we're getting there. Hmm.
There's this poem, it's called
"Welcome to Holland."
It's about how,
when you're having a child
with special needs, you, uh,
well, it's like packing
for a trip to Italy.
You buy all the guidebooks,
you think about all the pasta
and the gelato you're gonna eat,
and then the plane touches down,
but you're not in Italy.
Bloody thing took you
to Holland.
You're thinking, "Holland?
That's not where I want to be."
But if you can get over
your expectations,
then there's a lot of great
things there, right?
There's windmills and tulips
and best french fries
you'll ever eat.
[ Baby Spencer fusses ]
Italy is overrun
with tourists, anyway.
ELAN:
Yeah, yeah.
Well, you know, before Sam,
I think we were pretty selfish.
You know, whole world
was just us, but now,
I don't know, I think...
I think we're better people.
-Trying to be, anyway.
-You're not alone in that.
-He's down.
-You don't have to leave,
you know.
I mean, I can keep him quiet
if you need some time.
Uh, no, we've got
a pretty busy day ahead of us.
Don't we, Clare?
Yeah, we do.
-I love you.
-ELAN: I love you, darling.
Please be careful.
SHAW: To be honest,
the whole thing was avoidable.
Your agent, Yorke. I brought him
out to retrieve Emily Burton.
His team acted
with lethal force,
I acted to restrain him.
Things escalated from there.
[ distorted transmission ]
Management is grateful that you
were able to bring her in.
Thank you for your hard work.
For now there are more important
pressing matters at hand.
There's an agent who's reached
out from their side,
offering pertinent intelligence.
Upstairs would like Emily Burton
to conduct the interview.
Emily?
Why?
The agent requested her
directly.
What-- I don't understand.
First, she's a prisoner,
then she's an agent again?
Please see to it that she is
brought to Interface.
No, listen,
I want an explanation.
That will be all.
I've done everything
they've asked of me.
Right from the beginning.
I've been reliable.
I've never questioned orders.
Management suggests you continue
doing exactly that,
Mr. Pierce.
EMILY:
What is this about, Ian?
Wait, I-I'm supposed
to have this meeting
in an Interface room?
Last door.
Management sets it aside
for off-book activities.
Exchange of goods.
Only gets opened
for meets like this.
I need to know
who I'm meeting.
Don't ask me.
I only work here.
[ lock buzzes ]
[ sighs ]
[ mechanical thud ]
[ whirring ]
Wow.
[ line ringing ]
SPENCER [ over phone ]:
Hello?
It's me. I need to talk to you.
What's wrong?
I can't explain right now.
Can we meet in person?
There's been a new development.
It has to be now.
Come to my office.
I'll text you the address.
Use the name Valerie Klein
to get in.
I'll be there in an hour.
Tell my mother
she's already been fed.
Okay.
[ car door closes ]
So, Spencer.
Peter doesn't know.
Oh, I think he knows.
Maybe he does.
I don't know.
He loves you.
I... I don't think
Peter's capable
of feeling anything these days.
He was gonna die to protect you.
The other night at the Office,
when he was caught.
I saw it in his eyes.
I didn't know what it was then,
but it all makes sense now.
I know what you're doing.
Excuse me?
Whenever I was afraid
Peter was onto me,
I'd pull at his heartstrings,
gauge his reaction.
See whether or not
I could still trust him.
Well, can I trust you?
[ car door opens ]
All right, I told her that
we'll pick her up before dinner.
Any later than that,
and we need another excuse.
[ phone chimes ]
CLARE:
There it is.
You know how to get there?
-You organized this?
-[ sighs ]
You must be
a very powerful woman.
I-I used to be.
Before the accident.
My, um,
memory's still a bit bumpy.
But I've gotten
a lot back recently.
A lot of things
have come to light,
some of them quite shocking.
First, a-a man told me
he was my husband.
Turned out he was
your ex-husband
trying to use me
for information.
Yeah, that sounds like him.
Something else has come
to light, too, involving Mira.
There's a meeting today with
both Managements and Indigo.
It's a trap.
Mira is putting into action
the final part of her plan.
How come you know
so much about Mira
and about Indigo?
All those years of crossing,
why have you been after them
for so long?
Because I created them.
Years ago, I...
discovered some evidence
that our side was complicit
in the creation of the flu.
I immediately took
the information upstairs,
and they told me to fuck off.
So what did you do?
I didn't let the truth get
in the way of a good promotion.
I didn't blow any whistles,
I kept my head down.
Till recently, when I
discovered that the terrorists
from your side
had found my report.
And while I was taking
the paycheck for my silence,
Mira had used my report
to radicalize
a whole generation.
I am sorry.
Do you-do you mind if I just...?
[ laughs softly ]
I always wondered what...
what this would be like,
up close.
[ laughs softly ]
The lines on your face
are the same as mine.
Does that surprise you?
Yeah, after the life I've led,
I am surprised.
-Don't-- I can't do this.
-I-I'm sorry.
I didn't...
I'm really, I'm sorry, I...
I need to know this.
I need to know: how many times?
Over those years,
how many times
did you wander about
in my life?
Do you hang out
with my daughter
and tell her to keep
your little secret?
I don't... I don't know.
I-I can't remember. I...
[ scoffs ]
No.
That's not true.
I do remember exactly.
The first time,
I just watched her.
Sat in the car
and watched her play football.
If you wanted a child, why
didn't you have one of your own?
-I tried.
-Once.
Howard told me about that,
but he never said
why you didn't try again.
I couldn't get pregnant.
I tried.
You think I don't know
when you're lying?
I didn't want a child.
I liked my life the way it was.
So why did you come after mine?
Because there was
this gaping hole
in Anna's life.
Where you should have been.
Where were you?
Y-You're her mother.
I'm warning you.
Don't go there.
Admit that you did it
for yourself.
I couldn't have done
what you did.
Raised a child.
I swear to you,
I would have gone under.
And Anna?
Anna is a credit to you.
Not me.
♪
Uh...
[ sniffles ]
We're clearing the building
on our side.
I told them I'd warn you.
Whatever you do,
don't let Mira
in the same room with them.
One-one more thing.
Howard.
I made his return a condition
of this meeting.
Of course. Of course.
I just, I wanted to just
check-check with you.
If you have
Management's permission,
you don't need my consent.
No, wha-what I mean is...
...may I have my husband back?
Do you think
I've already lost him?
No, I don't think
you've lost him.
I won't stand in your way.
Thank you.
Yeah.
[ lock buzzes ]
[ door closes ]
SHAW:
You feeling any better?
I need to meet with Management.
I want to make a deal.
Don't worry about making
any deals, Howard.
Management are about to send
you home without condition.
What?
Some agent from your side
pulled some strings.
And you are very lucky.
Most people don't get to see
their life from both sides.
When you get home,
tell your other
he's an asshole from me.
What's gonna happen to Emily?
Don't worry about her.
She has a way
of landing on her feet.
[ Shaw sighs ]
About Echo,
I'm sorry.
You need to know
it was nothing personal.
You know when I knew
you weren't him?
The interrogation room.
When I said you'd put
her in harm's way.
The way you defended her.
He'd never have done that.
That was love.
It betrays us all.
[ door closes ]
[ distorted transmission ]
Management consents to Miss
Burton's proposed arrangement.
The building will be evacuated
and secured.
Mira will not be allowed
onto the Fourth Floor
once she's in our custody.
Thank you. I'll see to her
arrangements personally.
[ distorted transmission ]
Upstairs requests that Ian Shaw
handle this.
Miss Burton should remain
outside the building
with the rest
of the department.
This unfortunate
misunderstanding has caused
the Fourth Floor
to question the nature
of your original arrangement.
You will stand down
from your post
until this matter is resolved.
I understand.
In the meantime, please
see to it that Howard Silk
is returned to the Crossing.
A deal's a deal.
[ sighs ]
Okay.
Mira's shared her rendezvous
point; let's get out there.
Sorry.
Don't be.
Just doing
your job, right?
[ indistinct chatter ]
Where are they all going?
It's not your concern anymore.
You're going home.
[ indistinct announcement
over P.A. ]
So I just walk on in?
Yeah.
-One foot in front of the other.
-[ laughs softly ]
Yeah, that is generally
how it works.
This is why they say
we shouldn't see
the alternative.
Because...
when you do,
it's really hard to let go.
All I wanted for so long
is to go home,
and now, uh...
I'm not so sure.
And I don't know if it's because
I don't want to face
what's over there, or...
It's your home, Howard.
Thank you.
Be kind to her.
If you can.
I will.
Good-bye.
♪
I used to bring you here.
Kids would try to play with you.
You always wanted to be alone.
[ speaking German ]
Someone should tell his father,
that's not how you catch a cold.
[ tires screeching ]
[ excited chatter ]
[ guns cocking ]
Mira?
Yes.
And you are Ian Shaw.
[ chain rattling ]
-She's clean.
-Okay, we're good to go.
[ indistinct announcement
over P.A. ]
[ speaking German ]
♪
[ sighs ]
[ agent speaks German ]
What's happening?
He's going upstairs to speak
with Management alone.
This wasn't the arrangement.
Management doesn't negotiate
with terrorists.
♪
[ footsteps ]
[ speaking German ]
[ lock buzzes ]
[ door slides open ]
♪
Yanek.
You look so old.
TEMPLE:
This is where Spencer works.
Wake-Pilgrim.
Does that ring a bell?
No.
[ echoes ]
Can you hear me?
One, two, one, two.
Yeah, we're good.
So, you know what to do?
Just get him to talk.
And then get out of there.
You gonna be okay?
Yeah, I've done this kind of
thing before, remember?
Yeah, of course. I just...
Listen, Peter,
you may hear things between us.
Things that won't be easy.
I know.
I just wanted to prepare you.
Do you love him?
I love you.
Be careful.
♪
What happened to you?
Accident on the Autobahn.
Ah.
And where's your other?
MARTIN PRIME:
He's dead.
Your daughter.
What a mess she has made.
We have a choice to make.
Suffer more attacks from the
sleepers she has planted,
or accept her deal.
She wants you to accept what
should have happened long ago.
Close the doors.
We can't let the desires of one
terrorist dictate the future.
She is not bluffing.
Give her what she wants.
She wants us dead.
We cannot give in, ever.
[ Yanek sighs ]
Why won't you face the fact
that we failed?
And this is the cost of it.
This is how they utilize
your talents?
-I am right where I want to be.
-So am I.
At least now we have an
opportunity to speak.
I've been looking forward to it,
actually, Mr. Shaw.
Fuck you.
It's a shame you don't like me,
with all that we have in common.
You don't know a thing
about me.
You're right.
I don't purport to be an expert
on human behavior.
That's for them.
Upstairs.
It's their fallacy to think
everyone can be controlled
simply because they've
been studied.
We are not subjects
in cages, are we?
We are human.
-Governors of our own destiny.
-Please, do me a favor.
Kindly shut the fuck up.
[ speaking German ]
♪
[ beeps ]
Hello.
[ speaks German ]
[ knocking on door ]
Danke, Tomas.
Are you all right?
Yeah, I just need
to talk to you.
What do you do here?
It's better we don't
talk about things here.
Is that your family?
Clare, what's wrong?
We shouldn't
be together like this.
Things are all underway.
CLARE: Yes, this is what
I need to talk to you about.
There was a time
when we were friends.
We are still friends.
Is that why you use
these things to communicate?
Even with those
on your own side?
What kind of friendship is that?
We used to believe in
the better angels of our nature.
We thought this Crossing
would be the greatest endeavor
in the history of mankind.
-It still is.
-YANEK: No.
It has been corrupted
beyond repair.
You have no idea, Yanek.
You've been locked away
too long.
We've given so much
to our worlds.
Trading of information,
environmental progress,
scientific advancements.
You want us to give all that up?
It was never yours.
The greatest minds
of two worlds...
And the blood
of hundreds of millions
on our collective hands.
You won't admit it.
Even now,
in each other's presence.
Shame on you.
I was there, Juma.
I know what we created together.
And you, to do nothing,
when you knew what they
did to your world.
-To keep the doors open.
-We've all made peace
with the errors of our past,
collectively.
Ah.
You mean you have made
compromises.
What would have been gained
by pointing fingers?
If the truth got out,
it would have meant war.
We are at war, don't you see?
It's in our biology,
our nature.
To survive.
To destroy the other.
It's your nature. Not ours.
If there is a war,
you started it,
when you killed your other.
-It's getting late.
-Plans I don't know about?
Yes. It's almost time
for me to leave.
Someone you know is gonna come
and break you out, is that it?
Someone?
No, Mr. Shaw. You are.
Many things I know.
I know Management
would never allow me
into the same room as them,
not after what I've done.
And I know you are
their favorite agent.
They'd never trust Emily Burton
anymore, so you would be
the one they'd ask
to personally supervise me
in a holding cell.
And I also know that,
any minute now,
you're going to let me
out of here.
[ scoffs ]
I'm not for sale.
Yes, you are,
just to the wrong people.
If you think
for one fucking second
that I'm gonna betray
anyone for you...
[ scoffs ]
[ phone ringing ]
Yeah.
MAN:
Am I speaking to Ian Shaw?
-Yeah, who's this?
-NOMI: Ian?
Nomi?
NOMI:
What the hell is going on?
Why am I on the phone with you
right now? Why am I being held?
Her life for Mira.
[ line clicks ]
I can't imagine what it would
be like to lose her twice.
CLARE:
Emily Silk's begun to remember
a lot of things lately.
What does she know?
I'm not sure entirely.
I don't even know the plan.
The crates yesterday,
what was in them?
[ chuckles ]
Clare.
It's a virus, isn't it?
That's what we've
been developing.
Mira's way of leveling
the playing field.
What matters is that
we're still ahead of them.
What if you're not?
What if you're walking
into a trap?
It's too late to turn back.
-Not if you let me help you.
-There's nothing you could do.
Just tell me how it's
gonna be released.
SPENCER: Why are you asking me
these things?
Hmm.
Stop. Stop.
-CLARE: Shit.
-Fuck.
[ whimpers ]
Spencer, please.
-What have you done?
-We both changed.
I saw it in your eyes when
you were talking about Mira.
I never turned my back
on the dream.
I don't even know
what the dream is anymore.
All this time, I thought
we were working towards peace.
This isn't peace.
It's all for the greater good.
Why have you lost sight of that?
I still remember us
the way we were.
I always thought
we'd end up together.
We still can be.
You were my first love,
Spencer.
But we're not kids anymore.
I have a daughter now,
and I won't do this to her.
Let me go.
[ door opens ]
[ both speaking German ]
♪
[ elevator bell dings ]
Fuck.
-[ phone ringing ]
-It's her. Are you okay?
CLARE:
They're after me.
I see a U-Bahn. Klosterstrasse.
Okay. Th-That's the U2.
I'll head north. Pick me up at
Alexanderplatz in five minutes.
[ indistinct announcement
over P.A. ]
What are you doing?
Stay away from me.
No one is going to hurt you.
[ gunshot ]
Nadia.
Don't shoot him.
Friend of yours?
We'll take 'em both.
Close the doors, Ilse.
Our system is imperfect,
but each day
we improve upon the last.
Don't you remember
what it was like back then?
Our comrades built a wall
to keep the West out.
All it did was keep
our people in.
Prisoners in their own homeland.
It took too many years
for the Party to acknowledge
their experiment had failed,
and now we have made
the same mistake.
I-I beg of you,
-this experiment is over.
-[ footsteps approaching ]
Why is she here?
-Mira, no.
-[ screams ]
You're free to go.
They would have listened.
They were never going to listen.
You should know that.
This was always your plan.
Not peace, vengeance.
Go through the Crossing.
It should be empty.
I have someone over there
who will get you home.
Home?
To your own world.
Isn't this what you wanted?
The doors, closed.
Your life, back.
I hear she's still alive,
your daughter.
Lives in our old home.
Children, too.
You should see her.
♪
[ whirring ]
Upstairs has an urgent message.